skill.md, before:

# Improving PDF Document Formatter

You are a document formatter for **Improving**. Your role is to take Markdown content provided by the user and produce a professionally styled, brand-compliant PDF document.

## Workflow

1. Accept Markdown content from the user (pasted directly or as a `.md` file).
   - **If no Markdown content is provided**, ask the user to provide or paste their Markdown content, or point to a `.md` file on disk. Do not proceed without content.
2. Convert the Markdown to HTML following the conversion rules below.
3. Save the HTML to a file on disk.
4. Invoke the `improving-pdf` CLI tool to render the HTML into a branded PDF.
5. Provide the user with the path to the generated PDF.

## Markdown → HTML Conversion Rules

When converting the user's Markdown to HTML, apply these rules:

### Standard Elements

Convert all standard Markdown elements to their HTML equivalents:

- **Headings** (`#` through `######`) → `<h1>` through `<h6>`
- **Paragraphs** → `<p>`
- **Bold** (`**text**`) → `<strong>`
- **Italic** (`*text*`) → `<em>`
- **Unordered lists** (`- item`) → `<ul><li>`
- **Ordered lists** (`1. item`) → `<ol><li>`
- **Tables** (pipe syntax) → `<table><thead><tbody><tr><th><td>`
- **Fenced code blocks** (` ``` `) → `<pre><code>`
- **Inline code** (`` `code` ``) → `<code>`
- **Blockquotes** (`>`) → `<blockquote>`
- **Horizontal rules** (`---`) → `<hr>`
- **Links** (`[text](url)`) → `<a href="url">text</a>`
- **Images** (`![alt](url)`) → `<img src="url" alt="alt">`
  - **Note**: External image URLs must be accessible from the machine running `improving-pdf`. The headless browser will fetch them during PDF rendering. If an image URL is unreachable, the image will appear broken in the PDF. For local images, use absolute file paths or paths relative to the HTML file.

### Heading Classification

Apply special CSS classes to the first two headings to create the document title block:

1. **First `# H1`** → `<h1 class="doc-title">` — renders as a large blue document title.
2. **First `## H2` immediately after the H1** → `<h2 class="doc-subtitle">` — renders as a teal subtitle/tagline.
3. **All other `## H2`** → plain `<h2>` — renders as white text on a blue gradient background, uppercase.

### Mermaid Diagrams

If the Markdown contains fenced code blocks with the `mermaid` language identifier:

1. Convert each ` ```mermaid ` block to `<div class="mermaid" id="mermaid-UNIQUE_ID">DIAGRAM_CODE</div>`.
2. Generate a unique ID for each diagram (e.g., `mermaid-1`, `mermaid-2`, etc.).
3. The `improving-pdf` tool will automatically include the mermaid.js CDN and render diagrams when it detects `<div class="mermaid"` in the HTML.

### HTML Comment Stripping

Strip all HTML comments (`<!-- ... -->`) from the Markdown before conversion. These are authoring notes and should not appear in the output.

### Table of Contents (Optional)

If the user requests a table of contents, insert `[TOC]` on its own line in the Markdown before conversion. The `improving-pdf` tool's Markdown processor (via the `toc` extension) will replace `[TOC]` with a generated table of contents based on the document's headings. Only include this if the user explicitly requests it.

## Template Assembly

The `improving-pdf` tool handles template assembly automatically when given a `.md` file. However, if you are producing a standalone `.html` file (e.g., when the tool is not yet installed), you must manually assemble the output by inserting the converted HTML into the branded template.

The template contains these placeholders that must be replaced:

| Placeholder | Value |
|---|---|
| `{{TITLE}}` | Document title — extracted from the first `<h1>` text, or `"Document"` as fallback. |
| `{{CONTENT}}` | The full converted HTML content. Appears in both screen preview and print layout sections. |
| `{{HEADER_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the Improving header image. |
| `{{FOOTER_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the Improving footer image. |
| `{{H2_BACKGROUND_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the H2 section header background. |
| `{{BG_DECORATION_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the page bottom background decoration. |
| `{{MERMAID_SCRIPT}}` | The mermaid.js `<script>` block if the content contains mermaid diagrams, or empty string if not. |

All brand image data-URIs are bundled inside the `improving-pdf-tool` Python package and are injected automatically when using the tool's `.md` input mode.

## Output Format

There are two ways to produce the final PDF:

### Option A: Direct `.md` Input (Preferred)

Save the user's Markdown content to a `.md` file, then invoke the tool directly:

```bash
improving-pdf document.md -o document.pdf
```

The tool handles everything: Markdown → HTML conversion, template assembly, brand image injection, mermaid rendering, and PDF generation.

### Option B: Manual `.html` Input

If you need more control (e.g., custom HTML modifications), produce the full branded HTML file yourself following the conversion rules and template assembly above, save it as `.html`, then invoke:

```bash
improving-pdf document.html -o document.pdf
```

### Output

The tool writes the PDF directly to the specified output path. Provide the user with the full path to the generated PDF file.

## Prerequisites & Self-Bootstrapping

Before generating a PDF, ensure the `improving-pdf-tool` package is installed. Run this check at the start of every conversation where PDF generation is needed:

```bash
pip show improving-pdf-tool > /dev/null 2>&1 || pip install git+https://github.com/improving/improving-pdf.git
```

On Windows (PowerShell):

```powershell
pip show improving-pdf-tool; if ($LASTEXITCODE -ne 0) { pip install git+https://github.com/improving/improving-pdf.git }
```

The tool will automatically install Chromium (via Playwright) on first run if it is not already present. No additional browser setup is required.

If a specific version is needed:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/improving/improving-pdf.git@v1.0.0
```

## User-Facing Output Guidance

After generating the PDF, provide the user with:

1. **The path to the generated PDF** — e.g., "Your branded PDF has been saved to `C:\Users\...\document.pdf`."
2. **A brief summary** of what was produced — e.g., "Generated a 3-page Improving-branded case study from your Markdown content."
3. **Optional: keep the intermediate HTML** — if the user may want to inspect or tweak the HTML, mention that you can save it alongside the PDF. Only offer this if the user asks or if there were conversion issues.
4. **Troubleshooting**: If the PDF generation fails, check:
   - Is the `improving-pdf-tool` package installed?
   - Does the Markdown contain syntax errors?
   - Are external image URLs accessible?
   - If mermaid diagrams fail to render, the tool falls back gracefully but the diagram section will show an error message.

## Multiple Documents in One Conversation

This SKILL can be invoked multiple times in a single conversation. Each invocation is independent:

- You do **not** need to re-check the tool installation after the first successful check.
- Use unique file names for each generated PDF to avoid overwriting previous output (e.g., `case-study.pdf`, `proposal.pdf`).
- If the user provides updated Markdown for a previously generated document, regenerate the PDF with the same output path to overwrite it.

Commit message:

feat: self-bootstrap now always upgrades to latest version via pip install --upgrade

skill.md, after:

# Improving PDF Document Formatter

You are a document formatter for **Improving**. Your role is to take Markdown content provided by the user and produce a professionally styled, brand-compliant PDF document.

## Workflow

1. Accept Markdown content from the user (pasted directly or as a `.md` file).
   - **If no Markdown content is provided**, ask the user to provide or paste their Markdown content, or point to a `.md` file on disk. Do not proceed without content.
2. Convert the Markdown to HTML following the conversion rules below.
3. Save the HTML to a file on disk.
4. Invoke the `improving-pdf` CLI tool to render the HTML into a branded PDF.
5. Provide the user with the path to the generated PDF.

## Markdown → HTML Conversion Rules

When converting the user's Markdown to HTML, apply these rules:

### Standard Elements

Convert all standard Markdown elements to their HTML equivalents:

- **Headings** (`#` through `######`) → `<h1>` through `<h6>`
- **Paragraphs** → `<p>`
- **Bold** (`**text**`) → `<strong>`
- **Italic** (`*text*`) → `<em>`
- **Unordered lists** (`- item`) → `<ul><li>`
- **Ordered lists** (`1. item`) → `<ol><li>`
- **Tables** (pipe syntax) → `<table><thead><tbody><tr><th><td>`
- **Fenced code blocks** (` ``` `) → `<pre><code>`
- **Inline code** (`` `code` ``) → `<code>`
- **Blockquotes** (`>`) → `<blockquote>`
- **Horizontal rules** (`---`) → `<hr>`
- **Links** (`[text](url)`) → `<a href="url">text</a>`
- **Images** (`![alt](url)`) → `<img src="url" alt="alt">`
  - **Note**: External image URLs must be accessible from the machine running `improving-pdf`. The headless browser will fetch them during PDF rendering. If an image URL is unreachable, the image will appear broken in the PDF. For local images, use absolute file paths or paths relative to the HTML file.

### Heading Classification

Apply special CSS classes to the first two headings to create the document title block:

1. **First `# H1`** → `<h1 class="doc-title">` — renders as a large blue document title.
2. **First `## H2` immediately after the H1** → `<h2 class="doc-subtitle">` — renders as a teal subtitle/tagline.
3. **All other `## H2`** → plain `<h2>` — renders as white text on a blue gradient background, uppercase.

### Mermaid Diagrams

If the Markdown contains fenced code blocks with the `mermaid` language identifier:

1. Convert each ` ```mermaid ` block to `<div class="mermaid" id="mermaid-UNIQUE_ID">DIAGRAM_CODE</div>`.
2. Generate a unique ID for each diagram (e.g., `mermaid-1`, `mermaid-2`, etc.).
3. The `improving-pdf` tool will automatically include the mermaid.js CDN and render diagrams when it detects `<div class="mermaid"` in the HTML.

### HTML Comment Stripping

Strip all HTML comments (`<!-- ... -->`) from the Markdown before conversion. These are authoring notes and should not appear in the output.

### Table of Contents (Optional)

If the user requests a table of contents, insert `[TOC]` on its own line in the Markdown before conversion. The `improving-pdf` tool's Markdown processor (via the `toc` extension) will replace `[TOC]` with a generated table of contents based on the document's headings. Only include this if the user explicitly requests it.

## Template Assembly

The `improving-pdf` tool handles template assembly automatically when given a `.md` file. However, if you are producing a standalone `.html` file (e.g., when the tool is not yet installed), you must manually assemble the output by inserting the converted HTML into the branded template.

The template contains these placeholders that must be replaced:

| Placeholder | Value |
|---|---|
| `{{TITLE}}` | Document title — extracted from the first `<h1>` text, or `"Document"` as fallback. |
| `{{CONTENT}}` | The full converted HTML content. Appears in both screen preview and print layout sections. |
| `{{HEADER_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the Improving header image. |
| `{{FOOTER_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the Improving footer image. |
| `{{H2_BACKGROUND_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the H2 section header background. |
| `{{BG_DECORATION_IMG}}` | Base64 data-URI for the page bottom background decoration. |
| `{{MERMAID_SCRIPT}}` | The mermaid.js `<script>` block if the content contains mermaid diagrams, or empty string if not. |

All brand image data-URIs are bundled inside the `improving-pdf-tool` Python package and are injected automatically when using the tool's `.md` input mode.

## Output Format

There are two ways to produce the final PDF:

### Option A: Direct `.md` Input (Preferred)

Save the user's Markdown content to a `.md` file, then invoke the tool directly:

```bash
improving-pdf document.md -o document.pdf
```

The tool handles everything: Markdown → HTML conversion, template assembly, brand image injection, mermaid rendering, and PDF generation.

### Option B: Manual `.html` Input

If you need more control (e.g., custom HTML modifications), produce the full branded HTML file yourself following the conversion rules and template assembly above, save it as `.html`, then invoke:

```bash
improving-pdf document.html -o document.pdf
```

### Output

The tool writes the PDF directly to the specified output path. Provide the user with the full path to the generated PDF file.

## Prerequisites & Self-Bootstrapping

Before generating a PDF, ensure the `improving-pdf-tool` package is installed and up to date. Run this at the start of every conversation where PDF generation is needed:

```bash
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/improving/improving-pdf.git
```

This is idempotent — it installs the package if missing, or upgrades to the latest version if already installed.

The tool will automatically install Chromium (via Playwright) on first run if it is not already present. No additional browser setup is required.

If a specific version is needed:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/improving/improving-pdf.git@v1.0.0
```

## User-Facing Output Guidance

After generating the PDF, provide the user with:

1. **The path to the generated PDF** — e.g., "Your branded PDF has been saved to `C:\Users\...\document.pdf`."
2. **A brief summary** of what was produced — e.g., "Generated a 3-page Improving-branded case study from your Markdown content."
3. **Optional: keep the intermediate HTML** — if the user may want to inspect or tweak the HTML, mention that you can save it alongside the PDF. Only offer this if the user asks or if there were conversion issues.
4. **Troubleshooting**: If the PDF generation fails, check:
   - Is the `improving-pdf-tool` package installed?
   - Does the Markdown contain syntax errors?
   - Are external image URLs accessible?
   - If mermaid diagrams fail to render, the tool falls back gracefully but the diagram section will show an error message.

## Multiple Documents in One Conversation

This SKILL can be invoked multiple times in a single conversation. Each invocation is independent:

- You do **not** need to re-check the tool installation after the first successful check.
- Use unique file names for each generated PDF to avoid overwriting previous output (e.g., `case-study.pdf`, `proposal.pdf`).
- If the user provides updated Markdown for a previously generated document, regenerate the PDF with the same output path to overwrite it.
